---
layout: ../../layouts/LayoutPost.astro
title: "UDP Sockets & Digital Turntables"
description: "Show business and the club scene is not that different from other industries: it too has seen a massive change from old analog solutions to new digital equipment."
author: "Juan Covarrubias"
date: "09 Aug 2022"
tags: ["Networks", "Music", "Swift", "SwiftNIO"]
---
The night club scene is not that different from other industries: it too has seen a massive change from old analog solutions to new digital equipment. There are still some disc jockeys who carry a bag full of vinyls from venue to venue but the majority of deejays have opted for a much more convenient solution: digital music players. Most night clubs and music venues have DJ equipment inhouse and the standard setup you will find in night clubs world wide is Pioneer CDJ players and a Pioneer DJM mixer. The CDJ is a digital music player capable of playing audio files off from CDs, USB flash drives and SD cards. A deejay typically carries a USB stick with their music library on it. When it's their time to perform the deejay can just plug the USB flash drive to the CDJ and start playing. Besides the convenince of not having to carry heavy bags full of records the CDJs offer some really interesting features when connected to a LAN network. CDJ players can share audio files between each other and send useful information like the current BPM (beats per minute) of the current track. The DJM mixer can listen to this information that is broadcast on the network and use it to synchronize audio effects. In a more advanced setup this information can be fed to the lighting and video operators who can use it to synchronize the light show and video effects to match exactly the rythm of the music that is currently playing.

The owner of the Pioneer DJ brand AlphaTheta Corporation calls this technology Pro DJ Link and they have not released any public documentation on the protocol. I chose this as my research topic on a university course titlet Data Communication Project.

<div class="flex flex-row items-center justify-center w-full aspect-video">
<iframe class="object-cover h-full w-full" width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MCkAdgy9cAU" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>